# LITA: Data Analysis Class Project  
--- 

## Project Topic: Regional Sales Analysis
--- 

### Project Overview 
---  
This is a comprehensive analysis of a Sales Performance across a various region, market and store for a defined fiscal period. This is to gain valuable insights into the Regional Sales Performance within a particular period. By analysing the various parameters in the data received, we seek to understand the correlation of product sales, and geographic locations; customer preferences,to region and period with the highest turnover which then enable us to know the best performance from our data.

### Objectives 
---
The objectives of this projects is to have an insight into the following:
- Units Sold by Stores: The Total units sold by various stores within the period
- Revenue by Line of Business: To determine the Line of Business with the highest revenue for the period for decision making 
- Revenue by Stores: The total revenue generated by each outlet from all transactions made to determine the outlet with the highest revenue
  
### Data Source(s)
---
The Data used here is named LITA Class Inventory.xlsx.
The source of this data is from LITA Data Analysis Class Telegram Group. It is shared by the instructor through the administrator of the group and this Data showed the data collation of Sales Analysis from certian regions with the following notable parameters;
- Region: The territory where the transaction occurred 
- Market: The geographical area where the sales were made
- Store: The various shops/outlets where the goods were sold
- Trade Date: The record date on which all the sales were made
- Fiscal Period: The financial report period  
- Model: The model number of products sold
- Line of Business: The category/type of products sold
- Day Category: The category of days the transactions were made
- Revenue: The total turnover made from the sales
- Units Sold: The total number of goods sold
- Sales Category: The volume of goods sold in comparison with other outlets 

### Tools Used 
---
The following tools were used

1. Microsoft Excel [Download Here](https://www.microsoft.com)
- For Analysing of Data.
- For Data Visualization {Chart, Pivot Table}. To translate the complexity and the numerical data into a visual representation for easy comprehension and decision making 
- 2. GitHub [Download Here](https://www.github.com)
  - For Portfolio Building
    
- ### Data Visualization
  ---  
Image 
Conclusion
--- 

### Exploratory Data Analysis 
---
Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA for short) involved the exploring of the Data to answer some questions about the Data such as: 
- Which Stores has the highest revenue?
- Which line of business is thriving?
- Which Stores has a declining trend?

  ### Data Analysis
  To get the Transaction Category =IF(J2<=20,"Low",IF(J2<=50,"Medium","High"))

 ### Conclusion 
 ---
1.The Bottom five Stores by units sold shows a declining trend in Total Unit Sold. This highlights the need for the company to address any existing challenges in the affected stores and come to a conclusion if there is still a need for continuation in the affected Stores if no solution afterward. 

The top ten Stores by Revenue shows a thriving trend by Revenue generated within the period. The company can introduce incentives, bonus or promotion to the staffs of the Stores or discount when purchasing the product as an encouragement to do more. 

The Service Plan Line of Business shows a strong thriving trend above others. The company should try all within their means to keep the trend upward by focusing on it's expansion


****2. SQL - Structured Query language [Download Here](https://www.microsoft.com)
  - For Querying of Data 
  **
 
**
**### Data Cleaning and Preparations 
---
In the initial phase of the Data cleaning and preparaions, we perform the following actions: 
- Data Loading Inspection
- Handling Missing Variables
- Data Cleaning and Formatting
  The data cleaning and preparation process includes dealing with null values, text extraction & trimming, dropping unneeded columns, converting data types amd cleaning up the values
**
  
**### Data Analysis 
---
This is where we include some basic lines of code or queries or even some of the DAX expressions used during our analysis: 

```SQL
SELECT * FROM TABLE 1
WHERE CONDITION = TRUE
```**


**1. Data Cleaning lecture
n
2. 

|Heading 1|Heading 2|Heading 3|
|---------|---------|---------| 
|Table 1|Table 2|Table 3|**

